Music is like a mirror, and it tells people a lot about who you are and what you care about, whether you like it or not. We love to say “you are what you stream,”.Companies nowadays use music classification, either to be able to place recommendations to their customers (such as Spotify, Soundcloud) or simply as a product (for example Shazam). Determining music genres is the first step in that direction. Machine Learning techniques have proved to be quite successful in extracting trends and patterns from the large pool of data. The same principles are applied in Music Analysis also.This project is aimed at using the KNN classification algorithm to detect the genre of music from an audio file. The ability to classify an audio file and categorise them according to their genres, has proven to put a huge impact on services mentioned above. This way, they engage their customers more by predicting what type of music a particular customer is interested in and further applying state of the art deep learning methods to give recommendations.
The project aims to develop a machine learning model for classifying song genres based on Spotify data. Spotify is a popular music streaming platform that provides a vast amount of information about songs, including audio features like tempo, energy, danceability, instrumentalness, and more. Leveraging this data, the goal is to build a robust and accurate classification system capable of predicting the genre of a given song.
The dataset for the given project is: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/andradaolteanu/gtzan-dataset-music-genre-classification
